[Music]
you
wipe the sweat from your brow you've
rented a country cabin out in the woods
desperately needing a break from the
city it's summer
way too hot you set your suitcases on
the living room floor
go to turn on the light and nothing the
power's off
great you head down to the basement to
turn the breaker on
there are cobwebs everywhere but you
wouldn't know it it's so dark down here
[Music]
you reach for the switch when ow prick
myself on something
the pain's not too bad so you go ahead
and switch the breaker
the lights flip on and that's when you
see her
a little black spider hanging in a web
right where you pricked your finger
you start to shrug it off probably a
harmless little thing
but you look closer uh oh
that infamous bright red hourglass
shaped spot
it's a black widow and she must have
bitten you
one thought comes to mind this isn't
good
the black widow is one of the most
venomous fighters in the world
15 times more potent than a rattlesnake
they won't touch you if you don't touch
them that's why they prefer
quiet undisturbed areas like attics and
sheds
but if they feel threatened or worse
she's got eggs to protect
this normally shy eight-legged introvert
will come for you
that's when you see the smooth white
ball hanging nearby her web
an egg sack yep you had this coming
the moment your hand entered her do not
cross line
her motherly instinct took over she sunk
her
pincer-like jaws into your skin and from
those jaws protrude
two tiny fangs no longer than a grain of
sand
zoom in closer and you see they're
hollow
if you could follow this itty-bitty
tunnel it would take you to the spider's
venom gland
in female black widows it's pretty large
for a small enough spider
if not for the babies she probably would
have just scurried away from you in fear
and if she did bite she wouldn't waste
her precious poison on you
human that's better left for her next
meal she'd rather just scare you away
with what's called a dry bite without
venom
but no this black widow was protecting
her precious eggs
so she sinks her fangs into you like two
needles
and the venom comes rushing from the
gland two small red dots remain at the
bite site
it's not very painful but this is only
the beginning
within the first 15 minutes your arm
starts to cramp
you see spider venom is a special
neurotoxin
a protein that gets in the nervous
system through the blood
it spreads in the body from the tiny
capillaries near the surface of your
skin
and deeper from there the toxin grabs
onto the protein receptors of our
nervous system
our immune system can't prevent this
because venom proteins have very
tenacious and strong grips
but your body tries to fight the bite
begins to swell and turn red
it's a sign your immune system is
rushing blood
full of infection-fighting white cells
to the site
too bad it won't be enough in 30 minutes
this poisonous protein has attracted
loads of calcium to your nerve receptors
the result your body starts pumping out
hormones that contract your muscle
tissues
dilate your vessels and slow your heart
rate
within one hour your nervous system is
going crazy
the toxic protein spreads from the site
on your finger
now extremely painful and burning up
your arm
into your shoulder down your back and
chest further to your stomach
onward down the legs you're getting
severe spasms and
cramps all over it's hard for you to
walk
three hours later the venom has made it
to all parts of your body
your muscles are rigid like you have a
full body charlie horse
your abs are so tight it feels like you
have a hard plate under your skin
you try to move but your legs don't work
paralysis sets in
over the next few hours your condition
gets worse you're now fevered
as the immune system kicks up the
temperature to burn the poisonous
protein
sweat is released to cool the body down
your skin becomes clammy
the neurotoxin reaches your respiratory
system and heart
you have trouble breathing and your
heart rate is way
down by now you feel sick to your
stomach
just when you've accepted your fate the
poisonous effects
finally start to wear off 12 hours after
the bite
the black widow's neurotoxin is losing
its power
your body is gaining the upper hand the
receptors of the nervous system are
freed from the venom's protein
the pain decreases it gets easier to
breathe
your muscles have finally started to
relax
after two to three days the bite
symptoms will completely disappear
you are a lucky one your own body
managed to come back from the brain
for many people their immunity isn't
strong or developed enough to take the
attack on its own
they need medical help and an antivenom
to get rid of the neurotoxin
all that from a tiny little dime-sized
spider
but it could have gone a completely
different and no less pleasant route
say it had been a brown recluse like
with the widow
the initial bite isn't very painful some
people don't even know they've been
bitten
but as soon as it sank its fangs into
you its venom starts to do its dirty but
silent work within three to eight hours
you get redness and swelling at the side
yep there goes your body sending its
natural healer
white blood cells it's starting to burn
and the pain
intensifies the red patch will grow
around the body
when the fangs entered you might develop
a blister within the next few days
for healthy people the decline stops
after three to five days
then you start feeling better for others
the wound continues to grow and worsen
this is when you need to let a doctor
know with a brawn recluse
the toxin is absorbed into the blood
vessels and destroys their walls
when the spider has injected a lot of
venom or your immune system can't cope
on its own
it can actually cause tissues to lose
blood supply and
oxygen and that's what gives them life
it usually takes three weeks for a brown
recluse wound to heal
in the worst cases it can take two to
three months
when the wandering spider bites you its
toxin can cause
heavy salivation and a very erratic
heart rate
it's often called a banana spider
because it likes to hang out on banana
leaves
this notorious little monster even ran
one uk
family right out of their home they
brought some bananas at the store
and the bundle ended up hiding a
wandering spider's egg sack
the sack opened when the family came
home and the whole house was crawling
with baby spiders
at least this one will give you a
warning before it fights it raises its
front
legs in a defensive mode if you see this
dance
you better run a bite from a wolf spider
isn't too serious for humans
if you're an insect though bad news for
people the site will be red swollen and
itchy
like with bug bites or bee stings and
you definitely know
when you've been bitten by these
powerful fangs the wolf spider doesn't
weave a web
it hunts its prey by stalking and
pouncing on it
this arachnid speed and look are scarier
than its bike
for non-venomous spiders that wait for
their lunch to fly into a sticky webby
trap
they get right into action they quickly
run up to the prey
and start spinning it in 460 feet of
silk
enough to stretch across two boeing 747s
these orb weavers can turn their lunch
000 times while trapping it in this
cocoon
and if all of that has your
arachnophobia meter going off the scale
just be glad you weren't around 400
million years ago
there weren't any dinosaurs yet but
there were spiders
big ones mega ratning was over a foot
long
with a leg span of almost two feet about
the length of your arm
okay the scientists who discovered it
fossils misidentified the great spider
the creature was actually a euryptiarid
something like a giant marine scorpion
hey close enough i'm out of here